Introduction-- Networks, Neuroscience, Nirvana
Cybernetics was defined in 1948 by MIT's Norbert Weiner as the study of communication and control in the animal and machine. In groups of many such biological or mechanical agents acting together in concert, this communication takes on the abstract form of a "network". 

Networks are everywhere in our modern world. Physicists and other scientists use networks, and the mathematics which can be applied to them, to describe systems as diverse as airline transportation, cell biology, environmental sensors and the spread of sexually transmitted diseases. Most likely, you're reading this text as delivered through a network, the internet. Yet another network is actually processing and understanding the words on the screen- the biological network of neurons in your brain. 

Networks are everywhere, and they always have been. People talk about the "food chain" or "food web" that shuttles energy from the Sun, to crops, to livestock and onto your dinner table- this food web, too, is a complex network. From the inner working of our bodies and brains, to the global financial system and planetary ecosystem, networks are a way to understand, and thereby intelligently control, both the internal and the external environment.

The aim of the Cybernetic Sutra is fundamental redesign, and this hard-fought battle is won through means both internal and external. The first section of the sutra, Networks, describes the networks pervading our external world- communication, trade, environmental, government, social and technological- and their means of design and control. The second section, Neuroscience, provides a way of understanding and regulating the internal network, that which creates every joy, passion, fear and insight in our lives- our brain.

The final section, Nirvana, presents a series of case studies in the possible integration of the internal and external network science, and examines their potential benefits and pitfalls in relation to the current world system. This is an important section of the text, because we live in extraordinary and in many senses unparalleled times. The world is quickly becoming an interconnected electronic and biological network, linked as tightly by modern fiber-optics and global trade as it is by ecosystem dynamics and human relationships. The convergence of the natural and artifical worlds into a seamless whole comes at a momentous juncture in our species' history, and the possibilities in this modern era, be they beneficial, benign or even catastrophic, are now increasing as exponentially as our population and technological innovation itself. And yet, in the midst of so much opportunity for a better world, the global plagues of poverty, disease, disruptive globalization, dwindling food supplies, water shortages, war and climate change all seem beyond the preventive capabilities of the present-day governments. Through a careful application of the external and internal network science, we propose that the global citizens of the world take these matters, of such vital importance to us all, back into their own hands. Therefore, in keeping with this sentiment, this last section is open for submissions and feedback from anyone, living anywhere.

The time has arrived for a truly global citizens movement, and the Cybernetic Sutra hopes to be a coherent starting point for such a movement to begin its work. Nevertheless, the efforts of a grassroots, equitable, enlightened global citizens movement are unstoppable, with or without this text.

In the spirit of universal progress and a better future, we salute the sacred sisters Liberty, Knowledge, and Truth.



Signed,

Valmiki the Younger
India, 2010